# FireflyPulsar

This Firefly_Pulsar Generator can be used to create a pulse signal that is similar in structure to a pulsar's signal but is optimized to be maximally distinct in terms of its structure such as its period and absolute duty cycle ( the amount of time during a pulsar' period that its pulse is greater than the user defined flux cut off) while taking into account the potential energy requirements of generating such a pulse. This is managed using a weight system where **ws** represents the weight assigned to how important dissimilarity should be considered by the model. A higher ws value means more significance is given to disimilarity and less significance is given to reducing potential energy usage.

Additionally, the Firefly_Pulsar Generator can now also produce a number of additional figures and graphs that one may find useful or interesting. 

A mollweide map using galactic latitude and longitude can now be created with the galactic center and the pulsar background you defined plotted by calling the **"2d map"** when prompted. The dimensions of this graph can be adjusted in the window opened using the settings button in the lower right, next to the save button.

A astropy 3D Cartesian Representation of your selected pulsar backgrounds relative to the Earth and Galactic Center can also be produced by calling **"3d map."** This will open up a new window displaying this 3D Cartesian Representation which can be interacted with. Left clicking allows the user to adjust the orientation of the 3D map, and right clicking and dragging allows the user to zoom in and out of this map.

A figure visually comparing the pulse sequence of generated artificial firefly pulse signals and the background pulsar pulse signals can be generated by calling **"sequence figure"** when prompted. This figure's dimensions can also be adjusted using the plot settings button in the bottom right of the opened window next to the save button. **Note, when asked to provide the artificial signals, seperate them using a "-" rather than a comma.**

Finally, a cost distribution graph highlighting the cost of your generated artificial signals at various **ws** values compared to the normal distribution of costs produced when the cost function is applied to each pulsar in the background. This can be produced by calling **"cost distribution graph"** when prompted. This figure too can be adjusted using the plot settings button in the bottom right of the opened window.

# Using the Model

To use the model, run the firefly_pulsar_generator in the folder/ directory where you want the data and figures to be saved to. 

The model will prompt you regarding parameters it needs to find and generate the pulsar background(if you do not have one already in a .txt file)
**Important to note is that the X,Y,Z coordinates are defined with Earth being at 0,0,0.**

It will then ask you for more information regarding the ws weight(s) you wish to use when generating the Firefly Pulse Signal.
**If you decide to search for multiple weights, list the weights seperated by a coma and no space. No need to include square brackets or parenthesis.**

Next, it will  prompt you for additional preferences such as whether you want to generate contour or heat maps and whether you want to save the generator's  pulse signal and cost search landscape.
Saving the pulse signal and cost search landscape allows you to see the data behind the matrix that is used to find the most optimized (lowest cost) Firefly Pulse Signal and is the basis of the heat and contour map.

**The files will be saved as .txt files  and .png files within the directory that the code is executed in.**


